Voucher Redemption
==================

For a project to use Launchpad it must either be released under an
approved open source licence or the project administrators must buy a
commercial subscription to use Launchpad.  Vouchers for commercial
subscriptions are sold in the Canonical Store and the vouchers are
then redeemed against a project in Launchpad to create or extend a
commercial subscription.

The voucher belongs to a user in Launchpad so the redemption function
is related to a person.


Accessing the voucher redemption page
-------------------------------------

Mark is an administrator for at least one project that does not have a
valid open source licence so he is displayed the voucher redemption
page.

    >>> browser = setupBrowser(auth='Basic mark@example.com:test')
    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.test/~mark')
    >>> browser.getLink('Manage commercial subscriptions').click()
    >>> main = find_main_content(browser.contents)
    >>> print extract_text(main)
    Purchase and Redeem Commercial Subscription Vouchers
    ...Select the project you wish to subscribe...

A user can access their voucher page but not someone else's.  Here
no-priv tries to access '+vouchers' on another user and is not
allowed.

    >>> browser = setupBrowser(auth='Basic no-priv@canonical.com:test')
    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.test/~mark/+vouchers')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    Unauthorized: ...

Unless, of course, that user is an administrator.  Then they can access
the '+vouchers' page on any user.

    >>> browser = setupBrowser(auth='Basic foo.bar@canonical.com:test')
    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.test/~mark/+vouchers')
    >>> main = find_main_content(browser.contents)
    >>> print extract_text(main)
    Purchase and Redeem Commercial Subscription Vouchers
    ...Select the project you wish to subscribe...

Foo Bar has no vouchers.  Accessing the +vouchers page results in a message.

    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.test/~name12/+vouchers')
    >>> main = find_main_content(browser.contents)
    >>> print extract_text(main)
    Purchase and Redeem Commercial Subscription Vouchers
    ...You do not have any redeemable commercial subscription vouchers.
    Here are the steps to obtain a commercial subscription:...


Redeeming a voucher
------------------

Selecting a project the user owns and a valid voucher result in a
successful voucher redemption.

    >>> browser = setupBrowser(
    ...     auth='Basic celso.providelo@canonical.com:test')
    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.test/~cprov/+vouchers')
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.project').value='aptoncd'
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.voucher').value = [
    ...     'LPCBS12-f78df324-0cc2-11dd-8b6b-000000000004']
    >>> browser.getControl('Redeem').click()
    >>> print browser.url
    http://launchpad.test/~cprov/+vouchers
    >>> print_feedback_messages(browser.contents)
    Voucher redeemed successfully


Selecting a project that is not a commercial project owned by the user
results in an error.

    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.test/~cprov/+vouchers')
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.project').value='bzr'
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.voucher').value = [
    ...     'LPCBS12-f78df324-0cc2-11dd-8b6b-000000000005']
    >>> browser.getControl('Redeem').click()
    >>> print_feedback_messages(browser.contents)
    There is 1 error.
    Invalid value

If, however, a person is a member of the Launchpad Commercial team they
can apply a voucher to any project, not just those they administer.
This ability is provided so that commercial admins in Launchpad can
help projects with voucher issues, which is especially useful when
setting up Canonical-internal projects.

    >>> browser = setupBrowser(
    ...     auth='Basic commercial-member@canonical.com:test')

Show that the commercial member does not own or drive any projects by
viewing their +related-projects page.

    >>> login('foo.bar@canonical.com')
    >>> from zope.component import getUtility
    >>> from lp.app.interfaces.launchpad import ILaunchpadCelebrities
    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.person import IPersonSet
    >>> commercial_member = getUtility(IPersonSet).getByEmail(
    ...     'commercial-member@canonical.com')
    >>> celebs = getUtility(ILaunchpadCelebrities)
    >>> ignored = celebs.registry_experts.addMember(
    ...     commercial_member, commercial_member)
    >>> logout()

    >>> browser.open(
    ...     'http://launchpad.test/~commercial-member/+related-projects')
    >>> main = find_main_content(browser.contents)
    >>> print extract_text(main)
    Related projects
    ...
    Commercial Member doesn't own or drive any projects.

They can still redeem a voucher against a commercial project even though
they are not responsible for it.

    >>> browser.open('http://launchpad.test/~commercial-member/+vouchers')
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.project').value='mega-money-maker'
    >>> browser.getControl(name='field.voucher').value = [
    ...     'LPCBS12-f78df324-0cc2-11dd-8b6b-com000000001']
    >>> browser.getControl('Redeem').click()
    >>> print_feedback_messages(browser.contents)
    Voucher redeemed successfully
