= Branch Visibility Policy =

The branch visibility policy is used to define the default visibility
of branches when they are created.

Both projects and products can define a branch visibility policy.  If a
policy does not exist for a product, it uses the policy defined by its
project (if it exists).

The information is saved in the database table BranchVisibilityPolicy.
This table effectively creates tuples of (ProjectGroup or Product, Team,
Policy).  Since there is no team that is used to define everyone, the
non-specifying of a team means *everyone*.

The Policy is defined by the enumerated type BranchVisibilityRule.

    >>> from lp.code.enums import BranchVisibilityRule

There are currently four visibility policies:
 * Public - branches are public by default for the specified team.
 * Private - branches are private by default for the specified team.
 * Private only - branches are private by default, and the owner
     of the branch is not able to make them public.
 * Forbidden - members of the specified team are not able to create
     branches in the context.  This is only valid as a base policy
     that applies to everyone, and cannot be used as a selective
     discriminator against certain teams.

    >>> for item in BranchVisibilityRule.items:
    ...     print item.title
    Public
    Private
    Private only
    Forbidden


== IHasBranchVisibilityPolicy ==

The interface IHasBranchVisibilityPolicy is used to define the public
interface for modifying the branch visibility policy items.  Both
IProjectGroup and IProduct inherit from this interface as both projects and
products can set branch visibility policies.

    >>> from zope.component import getUtility
    >>> from lp.services.webapp.testing import verifyObject
    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.projectgroup import IProjectGroupSet
    >>> from lp.code.interfaces.branchvisibilitypolicy import (
    ...     IHasBranchVisibilityPolicy)
    >>> project_set = getUtility(IProjectGroupSet)
    >>> mozilla = project_set.getByName('mozilla')
    >>> IHasBranchVisibilityPolicy.providedBy(mozilla)
    True
    >>> verifyObject(IHasBranchVisibilityPolicy, mozilla)
    True

    >>> firefox, thunderbird = list(mozilla.products)

    >>> IHasBranchVisibilityPolicy.providedBy(firefox)
    True
    >>> verifyObject(IHasBranchVisibilityPolicy, firefox)
    True


== Teams to work with ==

    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.person import IPersonSet
    >>> person_set = getUtility(IPersonSet)
    >>> launchpad_team = person_set.getByName('launchpad')
    >>> ubuntu_gnome_team = person_set.getByName('name18')
    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.product import IProductSet
    >>> launchpad = getUtility(IProductSet).getByName('launchpad')
    >>> evolution = getUtility(IProductSet).getByName('evolution')

    >>> def teamname(team):
    ...     if team is None:
    ...         return "*everyone*"
    ...     else:
    ...         return team.displayname

    >>> def print_team_policies(context):
    ...     for item in context.getBranchVisibilityTeamPolicies():
    ...         print "%s: %s" % (teamname(item.team), item.rule.title)


== Default policy ==

There is an implicit policy defined for all contexts.  The implicit
policy is that everyone can create public branches.  The implicit policy
is not returned with the items attribute.  In order to override this
implicit policy you need to explicitly define a policy for everyone, and
this is done by specifying None for the team.

    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    >>> print evolution.getBaseBranchVisibilityRule().title
    Public
    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     None, BranchVisibilityRule.PUBLIC)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    *everyone*: Public
    >>> print evolution.getBaseBranchVisibilityRule().title
    Public


== Setting the policy for teams ==

Setting the policy for a team overrides any existing policy that may
exist for that team.

    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     launchpad_team, BranchVisibilityRule.PUBLIC)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    *everyone*: Public
    Launchpad Developers: Public

Setting again replaces the policy.

    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     launchpad_team, BranchVisibilityRule.PRIVATE)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    *everyone*: Public
    Launchpad Developers: Private

Setting the policy for *everyone* is done by passing None for the team.

    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     None, BranchVisibilityRule.FORBIDDEN)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    *everyone*: Forbidden
    Launchpad Developers: Private
    >>> print evolution.getBaseBranchVisibilityRule().title
    Forbidden


== Removing teams from the policy object ==

    >>> evolution.removeTeamFromBranchVisibilityPolicy(launchpad_team)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    *everyone*: Forbidden

Attempting to remove a team that doesn't exist is allowed, but does not
change the state of the policy object.

    >>> evolution.removeTeamFromBranchVisibilityPolicy(launchpad_team)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    *everyone*: Forbidden

In order to remove a policy assigned to everyone you pass None in for
the team name.

    >>> evolution.removeTeamFromBranchVisibilityPolicy(None)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)


== Listing the team policies ==

Team policies are listed in alphabetical order of the team display name
with the policy for *everybody* being first.

    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     ubuntu_gnome_team, BranchVisibilityRule.PRIVATE)
    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     launchpad_team, BranchVisibilityRule.PRIVATE)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    Launchpad Developers: Private
    Ubuntu Gnome Team: Private

    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     None, BranchVisibilityRule.PUBLIC)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    *everyone*: Public
    Launchpad Developers: Private
    Ubuntu Gnome Team: Private


== Inherited team policies ==

Products can inherit the branch visibility team policies of their
projects.  If a product has no project, then there are no inherited
team policies to inherit.

    >>> print mozilla.isUsingInheritedBranchVisibilityPolicy()
    False

The inherited behaviour is only used if there are no explicit team
policies set.

    >>> print thunderbird.isUsingInheritedBranchVisibilityPolicy()
    True

Since the Launchpad product doesn't have a project associated with it,
there is no inherited policy.

    >>> print launchpad.isUsingInheritedBranchVisibilityPolicy()
    False

Adding a team to the mozilla project will also affect products
associated with the mozilla project that are inheriting the project's
branch policy.

    >>> mozilla.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     None, BranchVisibilityRule.FORBIDDEN)
    >>> mozilla.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     ubuntu_gnome_team, BranchVisibilityRule.PRIVATE)

    >>> print_team_policies(mozilla)
    *everyone*: Forbidden
    Ubuntu Gnome Team: Private

    >>> print_team_policies(thunderbird)
    *everyone*: Forbidden
    Ubuntu Gnome Team: Private

In order to avoid inheriting the policy of the project, there just needs
to be an explicit team policy for the product.  This explicit team
policy could even be the same as the default policy.

    >>> thunderbird.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     None, BranchVisibilityRule.PUBLIC)
    >>> print thunderbird.isUsingInheritedBranchVisibilityPolicy()
    False
    >>> print_team_policies(thunderbird)
    *everyone*: Public


== Determining the defined policy for a team ==

You can get the defined policy for any given team using the method
getBranchVisibilityRuleForTeam.  If there is not a policy explicity
defined, then None is returned.

    >>> print mozilla.getBranchVisibilityRuleForTeam(ubuntu_gnome_team).title
    Private
    >>> print mozilla.getBranchVisibilityRuleForTeam(None).title
    Forbidden
    >>> print mozilla.getBranchVisibilityRuleForTeam(launchpad_team)
    None


== Policy checks during branch creation ==

The branch visibility policy is checked during branch creation through
the relevant IBranchNamespace implementation.

    >>> from lp.testing import login
    >>> login('foo.bar@canonical.com')
    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     None, BranchVisibilityRule.FORBIDDEN)
    >>> vcs_imports_team = person_set.getByName('vcs-imports')
    >>> evolution.setBranchVisibilityTeamPolicy(
    ...     vcs_imports_team, BranchVisibilityRule.PUBLIC)
    >>> print_team_policies(evolution)
    *everyone*: Forbidden
    Launchpad Developers: Private
    Ubuntu Gnome Team: Private
    VCS imports: Public

    >>> foo_bar = person_set.getByEmail("foo.bar@canonical.com")
    >>> stevea = person_set.getByName("stevea")
    >>> ddaa = person_set.getByName("ddaa")

When creating a branch, both the creator and owner need to be specified.
The creator must be in the team of the owner in order to create a branch
in the owner's namespace.

If there is a policy that applies specificly to the owner of the branch,
then that policy is applied for the branch.  This is to handle the
situation where TeamA is a member of TeamB, TeamA has a PUBLIC policy,
and TeamB has a PRIVATE policy.  By pushing to TeamA's branch area, the
PUBLIC policy is used.

If a owner is a member of more than one team that has a specified policy
the PRIVATE and PRIVATE_ONLY override PUBLIC policies.

If the owner is a member of more than one team that has PRIVATE or
PRIVATE_ONLY set as the policy, then the branch is created private, and
no team is subscribed to it as we can't guess which team the user means
to have the visibility.

Extensive behavioural tests for the determination of branch visibility
can be found in the file:
  lib/canonical/launchpad/database/tests/test_branchset.py

Foo Bar is a member of all the teams.

    >>> foo_bar.inTeam(launchpad_team)
    True
    >>> foo_bar.inTeam(ubuntu_gnome_team)
    True
    >>> foo_bar.inTeam(vcs_imports_team)
    True

If Foo Bar is creating a branch for evolution, the branch would be
created as a private branch, but since there are two teams that specify
privacy, the branch is created so only Foo Bar can see it.  It is up to
Foo Bar to subscribe the appropriate team at a later date.

    >>> branch = factory.makeProductBranch(
    ...     name="testing-1", owner=foo_bar, product=evolution)
    >>> branch.private
    True
    >>> branch.subscribers.count()
    1

Steve is a member of the Ubuntu Gnome Team, but not the Launchpad
Developers team, so branches that are created by Steve are private
and are subscribed to by the Ubuntu Gnome Team.

    >>> stevea.inTeam(launchpad_team)
    False
    >>> stevea.inTeam(ubuntu_gnome_team)
    True
    >>> stevea.inTeam(vcs_imports_team)
    False

    >>> branch = factory.makeProductBranch(
    ...     name="testing-2", owner=stevea, product=evolution)
    >>> branch.private
    True
    >>> for name in sorted([subscriber.displayname for subscriber
    ...                     in branch.subscribers]):
    ...     print name
    Steve Alexander
    Ubuntu Gnome Team

Since David is a member of VCS Imports but not a member of the other two
teams that have private branches, David's branch will be public.

    >>> ddaa.inTeam(launchpad_team)
    False
    >>> ddaa.inTeam(ubuntu_gnome_team)
    False
    >>> ddaa.inTeam(vcs_imports_team)
    True

    >>> branch = factory.makeProductBranch(
    ...     name="testing-3", owner=ddaa, product=evolution)
    >>> branch.private
    False
    >>> branch.subscribers.count()
    1

People that are not members of any of the specified teams get the base
visibility policy, which for this product is Forbidden.

    >>> no_priv = person_set.getByEmail("no-priv@canonical.com")

    >>> no_priv.inTeam(launchpad_team)
    False
    >>> no_priv.inTeam(ubuntu_gnome_team)
    False
    >>> no_priv.inTeam(vcs_imports_team)
    False

    >>> branch = factory.makeProductBranch(
    ...     name="testing-4", owner=no_priv, product=evolution)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    BranchCreationForbidden: You cannot create branches ...
