Bug Subscriptions
=================

Package bug subscriptions allow zero, one, or more people or teams that
get explicitly Cc'd to all public bugs filed on a package.

The package bug subscriptions are obtained from looking at the
StructuralSubscription table.

The list of package bug subscriptions are accessed through the
IDistributionSourcePackage.bug_subscriptions attribute. When there are
no subscriptions associated with a package, an empty list is returned:

    >>> from zope.component import getUtility
    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.distribution import IDistributionSet

    >>> debian = getUtility(IDistributionSet).getByName("debian")
    >>> debian_firefox = debian.getSourcePackage("mozilla-firefox")

    >>> list(debian_firefox.bug_subscriptions)
    []

Adding a package subscription is done with the
IDistributionSourcePackage.addBugSubscription method. You have to be
logged in to call this method:

    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.person import IPersonSet
    >>> personset = getUtility(IPersonSet)
    >>> sample_person = personset.getByName("name12")

    >>> debian_firefox.addBugSubscription(sample_person, sample_person)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    Unauthorized: ...

Let's login then to add a subscription:

    >>> from lp.testing import login
    >>> login("foo.bar@canonical.com")

    >>> debian_firefox.addBugSubscription(sample_person, sample_person)
    <...StructuralSubscription object at ...>

    >>> [pbc.subscriber.name for pbc in debian_firefox.bug_subscriptions]
    [u'name12']

Trying to add a subscription to a package when that person or team is
already subscribe to that package will return the existing subscription.

    >>> debian_firefox.addBugSubscription(sample_person, sample_person)
    <...StructuralSubscription object at ...>

Let's add an ITeam as one of the subscribers:

    >>> ubuntu_team = personset.getByName("ubuntu-team")
    >>> debian_firefox.addBugSubscription(ubuntu_team, ubuntu_team)
    <...StructuralSubscription object at ...>

    >>> sorted([
    ...     sub.subscriber.name for sub in debian_firefox.bug_subscriptions])
    [u'name12', u'ubuntu-team']

To remove a subscription, use
IStructuralSubscriptionTarget.removeBugSubscription:

    >>> debian_firefox.removeBugSubscription(sample_person, sample_person)
    >>> sorted([
    ...     sub.subscriber.id for sub in debian_firefox.bug_subscriptions])
    [17]

Trying to remove a subscription that doesn't exist on a source package
raises a DeleteSubscriptionError.

    >>> foobar = personset.getByName("name16")
    >>> debian_firefox.removeBugSubscription(foobar, foobar)
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      ...
    DeleteSubscriptionError: ...


Package Subscriptions and Bug Tasks
-----------------------------------

Often a bug gets reported on package foo, when it should have been
reported on bar. When a user, likely a bug triager or developer, changes
the source package, the subscribers for the new package get subscribed.
The subscribers of the previous package also remain subscribed.

To demonstrate, let's change the source package for bug #1 in mozilla-
firefox in Ubuntu to be pmount in Ubuntu, and see how the subscribers
list changes.

    >>> from lp.bugs.interfaces.bugtask import IBugTaskSet

    >>> ubuntu = getUtility(IDistributionSet).getByName("ubuntu")

    >>> ubuntu_firefox = ubuntu.getSourcePackage("mozilla-firefox")
    >>> ubuntu_pmount = ubuntu.getSourcePackage("pmount")

    >>> bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox = getUtility(IBugTaskSet).get(17)

Foo Bar, a package subscriber to ubuntu mozilla-firefox and ubuntu
pmount is currently not subscribed to bug 1.

    >>> from itertools import chain
    >>> def subscriber_names(bug):
    ...     subscribers = chain(
    ...         bug.getDirectSubscribers(),
    ...         bug.getIndirectSubscribers())
    ...     return sorted(
    ...         subscriber.displayname for subscriber in subscribers)

    >>> names = subscriber_names(bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.bug)
    >>> for name in names:
    ...     print name
    Foo Bar
    Mark Shuttleworth
    Sample Person
    Steve Alexander
    Ubuntu Team

Changing the package for bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox to pmount will
implicitly subscribe the new package's subscribers to the bug. In
demonstrating this, we'll also make Sample Person a subscriber to ubuntu
pmount, to show that the subscription changes behave correctly when a
subscriber to the new package is already subscribed to the bug:

    >>> from zope.event import notify

    >>> import transaction
    >>> from lazr.lifecycle.event import ObjectModifiedEvent
    >>> from lazr.lifecycle.snapshot import Snapshot
    >>> from lp.bugs.interfaces.bugtask import IBugTask
    >>> from lp.services.mail import stub

    >>> daf = personset.getByName("daf")
    >>> ubuntu_pmount.addBugSubscription(daf, daf)
    <...StructuralSubscription object at ...>

    >>> ubuntu_pmount.addBugSubscription(sample_person, sample_person)
    <...StructuralSubscription object at ...>

    >>> old_state = Snapshot(
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox, providing=IBugTask)

    >>> bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.transitionToTarget(ubuntu_pmount)

    >>> source_package_changed = ObjectModifiedEvent(
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox, old_state,
    ...        ["id", "title", "sourcepackagename"])

    >>> notify(source_package_changed)
    >>> transaction.commit()

With the source package changed, we can see that daf is now subscribed:

    >>> subscriber_names(bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.bug)
    [u'Dafydd Harries', u'Foo Bar', u'Mark Shuttleworth',
     u'Sample Person', u'Steve Alexander', u'Ubuntu Team']

daf is sent an email giving him complete information about the bug that
has just been retargeted, including the title, description, status,
importance, etc. The References header of the email contains the msgid
of the initial bug report (as if daf was a original recipient of the bug
notification). The email has the X-Launchpad-Message-Rationale header to
track why daf received the email. The rational is repeated in the footer
of the email with the bug title and URL.

    >>> import email

    >>> def by_to_addrs(a, b):
    ...        return cmp(a[1], b[1])

    >>> test_emails = list(stub.test_emails)
    >>> test_emails.sort(by_to_addrs)

    >>> len(test_emails)
    1

    >>> from_addr, to_addr, raw_message = test_emails.pop()
    >>> print from_addr
    bounces@canonical.com

    >>> print to_addr
    ['daf@canonical.com']

    >>> msg = email.message_from_string(raw_message)
    >>> msg['References'] == (
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.bug.initial_message.rfc822msgid)
    True

    >>> msg['X-Launchpad-Message-Rationale']
    'Subscriber (pmount in Ubuntu)'

    >>> msg['Subject']
    '[Bug 1] [NEW] Firefox does not support SVG'

    >>> print msg.get_payload(decode=True)
    You have been subscribed to a public bug:
    <BLANKLINE>
    Firefox needs to support embedded SVG images, now that the standard has
    been finalised.
    <BLANKLINE>
    The SVG standard 1.0 is complete, and draft implementations for Firefox
    exist. One of these implementations needs to be integrated with the base
    install of Firefox. Ideally, the implementation needs to include support
    for the manipulation of SVG objects from JavaScript to enable
    interactive and dynamic SVG drawings.
    <BLANKLINE>
    ** Affects: firefox
         Importance: Low
           Assignee: Mark Shuttleworth (mark)
             Status: New
    <BLANKLINE>
    ** Affects: pmount (Ubuntu)
         Importance: Medium
             Status: New
    <BLANKLINE>
    ** Affects: mozilla-firefox (Debian)
         Importance: Low
             Status: Confirmed
    <BLANKLINE>
    --
    Firefox does not support SVG
    http://bugs.launchpad.dev/bugs/1
    You received this bug notification because you
    are subscribed to pmount in Ubuntu.

Since the reporter didn't do anything to trigger this change, the bug
address is used as the From address.

    >>> print msg['From']
    Launchpad Bug Tracker <1@bugs.launchpad.net>

    >>> stub.test_emails = []

Let's see that nothing unexpected happens when we set the source package
to None.

    >>> old_state = Snapshot(
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox, providing=IBugTask)

    >>> bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.transitionToTarget(ubuntu)

    >>> source_package_changed = ObjectModifiedEvent(
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox, old_state, ["sourcepackagename"])

    >>> notify(source_package_changed)
    >>> transaction.commit()
    >>> stub.test_emails = []

The package subscribers, Daf and Foo Bar, are implicitly unsubscribed:

    >>> names = subscriber_names(bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.bug)
    >>> for name in names:
    ...     print name
    Mark Shuttleworth
    Sample Person
    Steve Alexander
    Ubuntu Team

Subscriptions are not limited to persons; teams are also allowed to
subscribe. Teams are a bit different, since they might not have a
contact address. Let's add such a team as a subscriber.

    >>> ubuntu_gnome = personset.getByName("name18")
    >>> ubuntu_gnome.preferredemail is None
    True

    >>> ubuntu_pmount.addBugSubscription(ubuntu_gnome, ubuntu_gnome)
    <...StructuralSubscription object at ...>

    >>> old_state = Snapshot(
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox, providing=IBugTask)

    >>> bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.transitionToTarget(ubuntu_pmount)

    >>> source_package_changed = ObjectModifiedEvent(
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox, old_state, ["sourcepackagename"])

    >>> notify(source_package_changed)
    >>> transaction.commit()

The Ubuntu Gnome team was subscribed to the bug:

    >>> subscriber_names(bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.bug)
    [u'Dafydd Harries', u'Foo Bar', u'Mark Shuttleworth',
     u'Sample Person', u'Steve Alexander', u'Ubuntu Gnome Team',
     u'Ubuntu Team']


We currently use a feature flag to control who is subscribed when a bug is
made private and to allow multi-pillar bugs to be private.

    >>> from lp.services.features.testing import FeatureFixture
    >>> feature_flag = {
    ...     'disclosure.allow_multipillar_private_bugs.enabled': 'on',
    ...     'disclosure.enhanced_private_bug_subscriptions.enabled': 'on'}
    >>> flags = FeatureFixture(feature_flag)
    >>> flags.setUp()

If a bug is private, no changes are made to the subscriber list when a
bug is reassigned to a different package.

    >>> bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.bug.setPrivate(
    ...        True, getUtility(ILaunchBag).user)
    True

So, if Martin Pitt subscribes to ubuntu mozilla-firefox:

    >>> pitti = personset.getByName("martin-pitt")
    >>> ubuntu_firefox.addBugSubscription(pitti, pitti)
    <...StructuralSubscription object at ...>

and then the bug gets reassigned to mozilla firefox:

    >>> old_state = Snapshot(
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox, providing=IBugTask)

    >>> bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.transitionToTarget(ubuntu_firefox)

    >>> source_package_changed = ObjectModifiedEvent(
    ...        bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox, old_state,
    ...        ["id", "title", "sourcepackagename"])

    >>> notify(source_package_changed)
    >>> transaction.commit()
    >>> stub.test_emails = []

the unallowed subscribers are removed:

    >>> subscriber_names(bug_one_in_ubuntu_firefox.bug)
    [u'Foo Bar', u'Mark Shuttleworth', u'Sample Person',
     u'Steve Alexander', u'Ubuntu Team']

Clean up the feature flag.

    >>> flags.cleanUp()


Product Bug Supervisors and Bug Tasks
-------------------------------------

Like reassigning a bug task to another package, reassigning a bug task
to another product will subscribe any new product bug supervisors to the
bug that aren't already subscribed.

    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.product import IProductSet

    >>> mozilla_firefox = getUtility(IProductSet).get(4)

Let's make Foo Bar a bug supervisor for upstream firefox:

    >>> mozilla_firefox.setBugSupervisor(foobar, foobar)

Then we'll reassign bug #2 in Ubuntu to be in Firefox, noting that Foo
Bar gets subscribed to the bug in the process:

    >>> bug_two_in_ubuntu = getUtility(IBugTaskSet).get(3)
    >>> print bug_two_in_ubuntu.bug.id
    2

    >>> print bug_two_in_ubuntu.product.name
    tomcat

    >>> sorted(
    ...        [subscription.person.displayname for subscription in
    ...         bug_two_in_ubuntu.bug.subscriptions])
    [u'Steve Alexander']

    >>> old_state = Snapshot(bug_two_in_ubuntu, providing=IBugTask)

    >>> bug_two_in_ubuntu.transitionToTarget(mozilla_firefox)

    >>> product_changed = ObjectModifiedEvent(
    ...        bug_two_in_ubuntu, old_state, ["id", "title", "product"])

    >>> notify(product_changed)
    >>> transaction.commit()

With the product changed, we can see that Foo Bar is now subscribed:

    >>> print '\n'.join(subscriber_names(bug_two_in_ubuntu.bug))
    Foo Bar
    Sample Person
    Steve Alexander
    Ubuntu Team

And Foo Bar gets an email containing complete information about the bug
report. It states that he received the email because he is the bug
supervisor for Mozilla Firefox.

    >>> test_emails = list(stub.test_emails)
    >>> test_emails.sort(by_to_addrs)

    >>> len(test_emails)
    1

    >>> from_addr, to_addr, raw_message = test_emails.pop()
    >>> print from_addr
    bounces@canonical.com

    >>> print to_addr
    ['foo.bar@canonical.com']

    >>> msg = email.message_from_string(raw_message)
    >>> msg['Subject']
    '[Bug 2] [NEW] Blackhole Trash folder'

    >>> print msg.get_payload(decode=True)
    You have been subscribed to a public bug:
    ...
    ** Affects: firefox
    ...
    --
    Blackhole Trash folder
    http://bugs.launchpad.dev/bugs/2
    You received this bug notification because you
    are subscribed to Mozilla Firefox.


Teams as bug supervisors
------------------------

The list of teams that a user may add to a package as a bug supervisor
will only contain those teams of which the user is an administrator.

    >>> from zope.component import getMultiAdapter
    >>> from lp.services.webapp.servers import LaunchpadTestRequest
    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.distribution import IDistributionSet

    >>> ubuntu = getUtility(IDistributionSet).getByName('ubuntu')
    >>> package = ubuntu.getSourcePackage('mozilla-firefox')

    >>> login('test@canonical.com')
    >>> request = LaunchpadTestRequest()
    >>> view = getMultiAdapter((package, request), name='+subscribe')

Sample Person is a member of four teams:

    >>> sample_person = view.user
    >>> ["%s: %s" % (membership.team.displayname, membership.status.name)
    ...     for membership in sample_person.team_memberships]
    [u'HWDB Team: APPROVED',
     u'Landscape Developers: ADMIN',
     u'Launchpad Users: ADMIN',
     u'Warty Security Team: APPROVED']

But is only an administrator of Landscape Developers, so that is the
only team that will be listed when the user is changing a package bug
supervisor:

    >>> for team in view.user.getAdministratedTeams():
    ...        print team.displayname
    Landscape Developers
    Launchpad Users

