= Doing lookups in a tree =

  >>> from lp.bugs.adapters.treelookup import (
  ...     LookupBranch, LookupTree)

`LookupTree` encapsulates a simple tree structure that can be used to
do lookups using one or more keys.

A tree contains multiple branches. To find something in a tree, one or
more keys are passed in. The second and subsequent keys are used if a
branch off the tree leads to another tree... which breaks the analogy
somewhat, but you get the picture :)

For a given key, each branch in the tree is checked, in order, to see
if it contains that key. If it does, the branch result is looked
at.

If the result is a tree, it is searched in the same way, but using the
next key that was originally passed in.

If the result is any other object, it is returned as the result of the
search.

Two things arise from this:

 * There can be more than one path through the tree to the same
   result.

 * A search of the tree may return a result without consuming all of
   the given keys.

It is also possible to specify a default branch. This is done by
creating a branch with no keys. This must be the last branch in the
tree, because it would not make sense for it to appear in any other
position.


== Creation ==

  >>> tree = LookupTree(
  ...     ('Snack', LookupTree(
  ...             ('Mars Bar', 'Snickers', 'Bad'),
  ...             ('Apple', 'Banana', 'Good'))),
  ...     LookupBranch('Lunch', 'Dinner', LookupTree(
  ...             ('Fish and chips', "Penne all'arrabbiata", 'Nice'),
  ...             ('Raw liver', 'Not so nice'))),
  ...     ('Make up your mind!',),
  ...     )

Behind the scenes, `LookupTree` promotes plain tuples (or any
iterable) into `LookupBranch` instances. This means that the last
member of the tuple is the result of the branch. All the other members
are keys.

Tuples/branches without keys are default choices. They must come
last. It doesn't make sense for a default to appear in any other
position, because it would completely obscure the subsequent branches
in the tree. Hence, attempting to specify a default branch before the
last position is treated as an error.

  >>> broken_tree = LookupTree(
  ...     ('Free agents',),
  ...     ('Alice', 'Bob', 'Allies of Schneier'))
  Traceback (most recent call last):
  ...
  TypeError: Default branch must be last.

To help when constructing more complex trees, an existing `LookupTree`
instance can be passed in when constructing a new one. Its branches
are copied into the new `LookupTree` at that point.

  >>> breakfast_tree = LookupTree(
  ...     ('Breakfast', 'Corn flakes'),
  ...     tree,
  ...     )

  >>> len(tree.branches)
  3
  >>> len(breakfast_tree.branches)
  4

Although it should not happen in regular operation (because
`LookupTree.__init__` ensures all arguments are `LookupBranch`
instances), `LookupTree._verify` also checks that every branch is a
`LookupBranch`.

  >>> invalid_tree = LookupTree(tree)
  >>> invalid_tree.branches = invalid_tree.branches + ('Greenland',)
  >>> invalid_tree._verify()
  Traceback (most recent call last):
  ...
  TypeError: Not a LookupBranch: u'Greenland'


== Searching ==

Just call `tree.find`.

  >>> print(tree.find('Snack', 'Banana'))
  Good

If you specify more keys than you need to reach a leaf, you still get
the result.

  >>> print(tree.find('Snack', 'Banana', 'Big', 'Yellow', 'Taxi'))
  Good

But an exception is raised if it does not reach a leaf.

  >>> tree.find('Snack')
  Traceback (most recent call last):
  ...
  KeyError: u'Snack'


== Development ==

`LookupTree` makes development easy, because `describe` gives a
complete description of the tree you've created.

  >>> print(tree.describe())
  tree(
      branch(Snack => tree(
          branch(u'Mars Bar', Snickers => u'Bad')
          branch(Apple, Banana => u'Good')
          ))
      branch(Lunch, Dinner => tree(
          branch(u'Fish and chips', u"Penne all'arrabbiata" => u'Nice')
          branch(u'Raw liver' => u'Not so nice')
          ))
      branch(* => u'Make up your mind!')
      )

We can also see that the result of constructing a new lookup using an
existing one is the same as if we had constructed it independently.

  >>> print(breakfast_tree.describe())
  tree(
      branch(Breakfast => u'Corn flakes')
      branch(Snack => tree(
          branch(u'Mars Bar', Snickers => u'Bad')
          branch(Apple, Banana => u'Good')
          ))
      branch(Lunch, Dinner => tree(
          branch(u'Fish and chips', u"Penne all'arrabbiata" => u'Nice')
          branch(u'Raw liver' => u'Not so nice')
          ))
      branch(* => u'Make up your mind!')
      )

Simple keys are shown without quotes, to aid readability, and default
branches are shown with '*' as the key.


== Pruning ==

During tree creation, branches which have keys that already appear in
earlier branches are cloned and have those already seen keys
pruned. If all keys are removed from a branch it is discarded.

The third branch in the following tree is discarded because 'Snack'
already appears as a key in the first branch. The fourth branch is
cloned then modified to remove the 'Lunch' key which already appeared
in the second branch. The default branch is left unchanged; only
branches with keys are candidates for being discarded.

  >>> pruned_tree = LookupTree(
  ...     ('Snack', 'Crisps'),
  ...     ('Lunch', 'Bread'),
  ...     ('Snack', 'Mars Bar'),
  ...     ('Lunch', 'Dinner', 'Soup'),
  ...     ('Eat more fruit and veg',),
  ...     )
  >>> print(pruned_tree.describe())
  tree(
      branch(Snack => u'Crisps')
      branch(Lunch => u'Bread')
      branch(Dinner => u'Soup')
      branch(* => u'Eat more fruit and veg')
      )


== Documentation ==

You can discover the minimum and maximum depth of a tree.

  >>> tree.min_depth
  1
  >>> tree.max_depth
  2

`LookupTree` has a `flatten` method that may be useful when generating
documentation. It yields tuples of keys that represent paths to
leaves.

  >>> for elems in tree.flatten():
  ...     path, result = elems[:-1], elems[-1]
  ...     print(' => '.join(
  ...         [repr(node.keys) for node in path] + [repr(result)]))
  (u'Snack',) => (u'Mars Bar', u'Snickers') => u'Bad'
  (u'Snack',) => (u'Apple', u'Banana') => u'Good'
  (u'Lunch', u'Dinner') =>
      (u'Fish and chips', u"Penne all'arrabbiata") => u'Nice'
  (u'Lunch', u'Dinner') => (u'Raw liver',) => u'Not so nice'
  () => u'Make up your mind!'
