= Package Architecture Specific =

The Package-Architecture-Specific (PAS) module is a parser to a set
of restrictions to build packages based on archive-admin experiences.

Those restrictions overlap the metadata information from the source
packages (architecturehintlist).

For testing PAS we will create a set of publications using
`SoyuzTestPublisher`.

    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.distribution import (
    ...     IDistributionSet)
    >>> ubuntu = getUtility(IDistributionSet).getByName('ubuntu')
    >>> hoary = ubuntu.getSeries('hoary')

    >>> from lp.soyuz.tests.test_publishing import (
    ...     SoyuzTestPublisher)
    >>> from lp.testing.dbuser import (
    ...     lp_dbuser,
    ...     switch_dbuser,
    ...     )

Publication will be added as 'launchpad' DB user.

    >>> switch_dbuser("launchpad")

    >>> test_publisher = SoyuzTestPublisher()
    >>> ignore = test_publisher.setUpDefaultDistroSeries(hoary)
    >>> test_publisher.addFakeChroots()

    >>> pub_three = test_publisher.getPubSource(
    ...     sourcename='test-buildd-3', version='669',
    ...     architecturehintlist="i386 hppa amd64")

Create a PPA source publication.

    >>> from lp.registry.interfaces.person import IPersonSet
    >>> cprov = getUtility(IPersonSet).getByName('cprov')

    >>> pub_ppa = test_publisher.getPubSource(
    ...     sourcename='test-ppa', version='675',
    ...     architecturehintlist="i386 hppa",
    ...     archive=cprov.archive)

Good, all done, we can commit the publications and continue the tests
with the buildmaster DB user.

    >>> switch_dbuser(test_dbuser)


== Check the architectures to build ==

Hoary has only 'hppa' and 'i386' architectures.

    >>> legal_archs = set(hoary.architectures)

    >>> def print_architectures(architectures):
    ...     arch_tags = [arch.architecturetag for arch in architectures]
    ...     for tag in sorted(arch_tags):
    ...         print tag

    >>> print_architectures(legal_archs)
    hppa
    i386

See if the code which determines archs to build does the right thing for
each of these options:

    >>> from lp.soyuz.pas import (
    ...     BuildDaemonPackagesArchSpecific, determineArchitecturesToBuild)

    >>> def print_build_architectures(pub, pas_verify=None):
    ...     allowed_architectures = determineArchitecturesToBuild(
    ...         pub, legal_archs, hoary, pas_verify)
    ...     print_architectures(allowed_architectures)

=== Source PAS ===

Source PAS lines are the ones starting with '%' followed by the source
package name, colon and then a list of architecture tags separated by
space.

Create a harness that lets us easily test PAS statements:

    >>> import os
    >>> import tempfile
    >>> import shutil

    >>> def getPASVerifier(pas_string):
    ...   """Build and return a PAS verifier based on the string provided."""
    ...   temp_dir = tempfile.mkdtemp()
    ...   pas_filename = os.path.join(temp_dir, "Packages-arch-specific")
    ...   pas_file = open(pas_filename, "w")
    ...   pas_file.write(pas_string)
    ...   pas_file.close()
    ...   pas_verify = BuildDaemonPackagesArchSpecific(temp_dir, hoary)
    ...   shutil.rmtree(temp_dir)
    ...   return pas_verify

Normally, 'pub_three' would be built on all available architectures in
hoary.

    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_three)
    hppa
    i386

But it it can be 'temporarily' restricted to build only on 'i386' via
PAS.

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("%test-buildd-3: i386")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_three, pas_verify)
    i386

Or even restricted to not be built in any architecture.

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("%test-buildd-3: sparc")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_three, pas_verify)

PAS can also be used for excluding specific architectures.

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("%test-buildd-3: !i386")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_three, pas_verify)
    hppa

PPA builds are not affected by PAS restrictions, i.e., they will
build for all requested architectures currently supported in the PPA
subsystem.

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("%test-ppa: hppa")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_ppa, pas_verify)
    i386

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("%test-ppa: !i386")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_ppa, pas_verify)
    i386


== Binary PAS ==

Binary PAS lines are the ones which does not start with '%'. They
contain binary package name, colon and then a list of architecture
tags separated by space.

Binary PAS lines work as a shortcut to the source when they produce
only a single binary. When the binary mentioned is part of a
collection of binaries produced by the same source the architecture
restriction does not make sense anymore. See more information about
this aspect below.

To check binary PAS listings we'll use a source publication for which
produces a single binary.

    >>> from lp.soyuz.enums import (
    ...     PackagePublishingStatus)

    >>> with lp_dbuser():
    ...     pub_single = test_publisher.getPubSource(
    ...         sourcename='single', version='1.0',
    ...         architecturehintlist="any")
    ...     binaries = test_publisher.getPubBinaries(
    ...         binaryname='single-bin', pub_source=pub_single,
    ...         status=PackagePublishingStatus.PUBLISHED)

    >>> len(set(pub.binarypackagerelease.name
    ...         for pub in pub_single.getPublishedBinaries()))
    1

Normally the source would be built in all the available architectures
in hoary.

    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_single)
    hppa
    i386

The source building does not get affect by an unrelated binary PAS line.

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("boing: i386")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_single, pas_verify)
    hppa
    i386

Using PAS, we can restrict the building architectures by tagging the
produced binary with a specific list of allowed architectures.

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("single-bin: i386 sparc")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_single, pas_verify)
    i386

It's also possible to only block specific architectures.

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("single-bin: !hppa")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_single, pas_verify)
    i386

Although it's not possible to block the build on the
'nominatedarchindep' architecture via a binary PAS line. The reason
for that is the fact the architecture independent binaries are only
built in i386, if it gets blacklisted those binaries won't be
built. This would never be a legitimate use-case.

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("single-bin: !i386 !hppa")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_single, pas_verify)
    i386

Binary PAS lines are ignored for PPAs as well. We create a binary for
the existing test PPA source publication.

    >>> with lp_dbuser():
    ...     pub_ppa.archive.require_virtualized = False
    ...     binaries = test_publisher.getPubBinaries(
    ...         binaryname='ppa-bin', pub_source=pub_ppa,
    ...         status=PackagePublishingStatus.PUBLISHED)

And it will build in the same architectures with or without a
corresponding PAS binary line.

    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_ppa)
    hppa
    i386

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("ppa-bin: !hppa")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_single, pas_verify)
    hppa
    i386

As mentioned above, PAS binary lines referring to binary packages for
which the source produce other binaries are completely ignored. Other
tools use that information but we can't restrict builds in this
circumstances.

We will create a 'multiple' source publication build two binaries,
'bin-one' and 'bin-two'.

    >>> with lp_dbuser():
    ...     pub_multiple = test_publisher.getPubSource(
    ...         sourcename='multiple', version='1.1',
    ...         architecturehintlist="any")
    ...     for build in pub_multiple.createMissingBuilds():
    ...         bin_one = test_publisher.uploadBinaryForBuild(
    ...             build, 'bin-one')
    ...         pub_bin_one = test_publisher.publishBinaryInArchive(
    ...             bin_one, pub_multiple.archive,
    ...             status=PackagePublishingStatus.PUBLISHED)
    ...         bin_two = test_publisher.uploadBinaryForBuild(
    ...             build, 'bin-two')
    ...         pub_bin_two = test_publisher.publishBinaryInArchive(
    ...             bin_two, pub_multiple.archive,
    ...             status=PackagePublishingStatus.PUBLISHED)

    >>> len(set(pub.binarypackagerelease.name
    ...         for pub in pub_multiple.getPublishedBinaries()))
    2

Any attempt to restrict the building architectures on 'multiple'
source via its binaries will be ignored and it will continue to be
built for all available architectures.

    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_multiple)
    hppa
    i386

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("bin-one: i386 sparc")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_multiple, pas_verify)
    hppa
    i386

    >>> pas_verify = getPASVerifier("bin-two: !hppa")
    >>> print_build_architectures(pub_multiple, pas_verify)
    hppa
    i386
